README.md, before:

# README

Singularity image with pre-installed libraries for running bulk RNA-seq analysis

The included libraries:

#### Visualisation

+ ggplot2
+ ggrepel
+ ggsignif
+ cowplot
+ RColorBrewer
+ patchwork
+ ComplexHeatmap

#### Differential gene expression analysis

+ edgeR
+ DESeq2

#### Gene and genome annotation

+ [clusterProfiler](https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/clusterProfiler.html)
+ [ReactomePA](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/ReactomePA.html)
+ biomaRt
+ [org.Mm.eg.db](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/data/annotation/html/org.Mm.eg.db.html)
+ [org.Hs.eg.db](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/data/annotation/html/org.Hs.eg.db.html)
+ tximport

#### Utility

+ gtools
+ tools
+ scales
+ data.table
+ forcats
+ openxlsx

---

## Build

Use the definition file to build locally:

```sh
apptainer build bulk-RNAseq.sif bulk-RNAseq.def
```

## Deploy

Pre-build image can be downloaded from the [Cloud Library](https://cloud.sylabs.io/library):

```sh
apptainer pull library://flerpan01/singularity-r/bulk-rnaseq:latest
```

>Note, with apptainer the [remote singularity host](https://apptainer.org/docs/user/latest/endpoint.html#restoring-pre-apptainer-library-behavior) might need to be added manually
>
>```sh
># list the remote URI
>singuliarty remote list
>
># add singularity cloud URI
>apptainer remote add --no-login SylabsCloud cloud.sycloud.io
>```

Commit message:

Add section about 'execute scriptes' in README

README.md, after:

# README

Singularity image with pre-installed libraries for running bulk RNA-seq analysis in [`R`](https://www.r-project.org/).

The included libraries:

#### Visualisation

+ ggplot2
+ ggrepel
+ ggsignif
+ cowplot
+ RColorBrewer
+ patchwork
+ ComplexHeatmap

#### Differential gene expression analysis

+ edgeR
+ DESeq2

#### Gene and genome annotation

+ [clusterProfiler](https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/clusterProfiler.html)
+ [ReactomePA](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/ReactomePA.html)
+ biomaRt
+ [org.Mm.eg.db](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/data/annotation/html/org.Mm.eg.db.html)
+ [org.Hs.eg.db](https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/data/annotation/html/org.Hs.eg.db.html)
+ tximport

#### Utility

+ gtools
+ tools
+ scales
+ data.table
+ forcats
+ openxlsx

## Build

Use the definition file to build locally:

```sh
apptainer build bulk-RNAseq.sif bulk-RNAseq.def
```

## Deploy

Pre-build image can be downloaded from the [Cloud Library](https://cloud.sylabs.io/library):

```sh
apptainer pull library://flerpan01/singularity-r/bulk-rnaseq:latest
```

>Note, with apptainer the [remote singularity host](https://apptainer.org/docs/user/latest/endpoint.html#restoring-pre-apptainer-library-behavior) might need to be added manually
>
>```sh
># list the remote URI
>singuliarty remote list
>
># add singularity cloud URI
>apptainer remote add --no-login SylabsCloud cloud.sycloud.io
>```

## Execute scripts

In order to fully utilise the singularity image make sure a shebang is included in the script file `#!/usr/bin/env Rscript`.

```r
#!/usr/bin/env Rscript

suppressPackageStartupMessages({
	library(edgeR)
	library(gtools)
})

...

```

Also make the script file executable. 

```sh
chmod +x script-file.R
```

The singularity image expects a script file on `exec`.

```sh
apptainer exec library://flerpan01/singularity-r/bulk-rnaseq:latest script-file.R
```
